= Jewelry Portfolio

Surely also lazy developers like to showcase their jewelry portfolio on their
GitHub pages.

Imagine writing an erb template once and use <tt>rake release</tt> to release
your gem with Jeweler as usual, but in addition re-generate and push the
index.html for your GitHub pages. If that sounds good to you, you're in luck.
Because that's exactly what this gem does.

Note that JewelryPortfolio _can_ be used without Jeweler. Simply define all
attributes as described in "GitHub pages repository: Rakefile"

== Usage

=== GitHub pages repository

First things first; create a GitHub pages repository if you haven't done so
already. See http://github.com/guides/pages for more info.

Then create the following files, and content, in the master branch of your
pages repository (<em>for a more elaborate example see:
http://github.com/Fingertips/fingertips.github.com/tree/master, which
creates the following: http://fingertips.github.com/</em>):

* <b>Rakefile:</b>

    require 'jewelry_portfolio/tasks'
    JewelryPortfolio::Tasks.new do |t|
      t.account     = 'Fingertips'
      t.name        = 'passengerpane'
      t.version     = '1.2.0'
      t.summary     = 'A short summary about the project.'
      t.description = 'A longer description about the project.'
    end

  The +account+ is only necessary when you haven't configured github.user in
  the local or global git config. (For more info see:
  http://github.com/guides/local-github-config.) Or if you want to override the
  +account+ that was retrieved from the git config.
  
  The other attributes are only necessary when there's no gemspec file in the
  work directory.

* <b>template.html.erb:</b>

  This is the main template file which will be used to generate the index.html
  file. All repositories and their gem specifications are available as the
  local variable <tt>repos</tt>. See JewelryPortfolio::Template and
  JewelryPortfolio::Repo for more information.</em>.

    <html>
      <head>
        <title>Alloy&rsquo;s jewelry</title>
      </head>

      <p>This is an overview of the available gems by Eloy Duran, aka `alloy'.</p>

      <body>
        <% repos.each do |repo| %>
          <%= repo_partial(repo) %>
        <% end %>
      </body>
    </html>

* <b>repo.html.erb:</b>

  This file is completely optional; it's just a showcase of using a repo
  partial.

    <div>
      <h1><a href="<%= repo.url %>"><%= spec.name %> <%= spec.version %></a></h1>
      <p><%= spec.description %></p>
      <p>Install: <code>$ <%= repo.gem_install_command %></code></p>
      <p>Clone: <code>$ git clone <%= repo.clone_url %></code></p>
    </div>

Now you can generate the index.html file with:

  $ rake portfolio:generate

Since you haven't added any projects yet the generated index will be pretty
dull. But for now just release this version:

  $ rake portfolio:release

Whenever you update the template you can use these tasks to preview and/or
release it.

=== Add super-cow powers to your project's Rakefile

Update the Rakefile of the project that you would like to include in your
jewelry portfolio (<em>note that it isn't necessary to use Jeweler to be able
to use JewelryPortfolio</em>) like so:

  begin
    require 'jeweler'
    Jeweler::Tasks.new do |s|
      # ...
    end
    
    # Add the following to your Rakefile to use JewelryPortfolio
    begin
      require 'jewelry_portfolio/tasks'
      JewelryPortfolio::Tasks.new
    rescue LoadError
      puts "JewelryPortfolio not available. Install it with: sudo gem install Fingertips-jewelry_portfolio -s http://gems.github.com"
    end
    
  rescue LoadError
    puts "Jeweler not available. Install it with: sudo gem install technicalpickles-jeweler -s http://gems.github.com"
  end

From now on, whenever you use the +release+ rake task, the GitHub pages
index.html will be re-generated and pushed to GitHub after releasing the gem.

If you just want to re-generate, or release, the jewelry portfolio use the
aforementioned <tt>portfolio:generate</tt> and <tt>portfolio:release</tt> rake
tasks.

== COPYRIGHT

Copyright © 2009 Fingertips, Eloy Duran. See LICENSE for details.